# Ultimate Mac Web Dev Setup

[Back to Start](readme.md)

## Part 3: Web Server

## Local Web Server

### Set Up Apache and Multiple PHP instances
We want to overide deault Apache and PHP, as well as support multiple PHP environments. Some legacy projects for example.

Follow Instructions here:

https://getgrav.org/blog/macos-sierra-apache-multiple-php-versions

note:
1. You can point the server to any folder on your system. I have a folder for all of my sites in a particular folder for example.
2. Set Default Time zone in each php.ini file.

```
date.timezone = "America/Los_Angeles"
```

3. MySQL - use my installation below instead.
It looks to install MariaDB which is an alternative to MySQL. In practice does not look like you would see a difference.

4. Virtual Hosts Config

    a. Change the Include path for #Virtual hosts

    `Include /usr/local/etc/httpd/extra/vhosts/*.conf`

    b. Inside of `/usr/local/etc/httpd/extra/vhosts/` create localhost.conf

    ```
    <VirtualHost *:80>
        ServerName localhost
        DocumentRoot "/Users/meatch/MeatchPod"
    </VirtualHost>
    ```



5. Skip [Optional] APCu Configuration
6. Install APCu, Yaml and Xdebug together on each PHP version.

see the "Advanced Techniques" which comines them all.

APCu when asked to log, say no.
Yaml - when hit with autodetect, press enter.


### Common Apache Commands
Commands for managing Apache do not change (-k flag will force a restart immediately rather than asking politely to restart when apache is good and ready)
```
sudo apachectl start
sudo apachectl stop
sudo apachectl -k restart
```


## Vhost With SSL






### MySQL
1. Install MySQL
    `brew install mysql`

2. Brew Services: Lets you start up services
    `brew tap homebrew/services`

3. Start MYSQL
    `brew services start mysql`

4. Set Up Local User and Pass (exchange yourpassword with Your Password)
    `mysqladmin -u root password 'yourpassword'`
